# Machine Learning with Tree-Based Models in Python
---
### Train your first classification tree
In this exercise you'll work with the Wisconsin Breast Cancer Dataset from the UCI machine learning repository. You'll predict whether a tumor is malignant or benign based on two features: the mean radius of the tumor (radius_mean) and its mean number of concave points (concave points_mean).

The dataset is already loaded in your workspace and is split into 80% train and 20% test. The feature matrices are assigned to X_train and X_test, while the arrays of labels are assigned to y_train and y_test where class 1 corresponds to a malignant tumor and class 0 corresponds to a benign tumor. To obtain reproducible results, we also defined a :    
* Import DecisionTreeClassifier from sklearn.tree.
* Instantiate a DecisionTreeClassifier dt of maximum depth equal to 6.
* Fit dt to the training set.
* Predict the test set labels and assign the result to y_pred.variable called SEED which is set to 1.
```python
# Import DecisionTreeClassifier from sklearn.tree
from sklearn.tree import DecisionTreeClassifier

# Instantiate a DecisionTreeClassifier 'dt' with a maximum depth of 6
dt = DecisionTreeClassifier(max_depth=6, random_state=SEED)

# Fit dt to the training set
dt.fit(X_train, y_train)

# Predict test set labels
y_pred = dt.predict(X_test)
print(y_pred[0:5])
```
> output:    [0 0 0 1 0]

*You've just trained your first classification tree! You can see the first five predictions made by the fitted tree on the test set in the console. In the next exercise, you'll evaluate the tree's performance on the entire test set.*

### Evaluate the classification tree
Now that you've fit your first classification tree, it's time to evaluate its performance on the test set. You'll do so using the accuracy metric which corresponds to the fraction of correct predictions made on the test set.

The trained model dt from the previous exercise is loaded in your workspace along with the test set features matrix X_test and the array of labels y_test.
* Import the function accuracy_score from sklearn.metrics.
* Predict the test set labels and assign the obtained array to y_pred.
* Evaluate the test set accuracy score of dt by calling accuracy_score() and assign the value to acc.
```python
# Import accuracy_score
from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score

# Predict test set labels
y_pred = dt.predict(X_test)

# Compute test set accuracy  
acc = accuracy_score(y_test, y_pred)
print("Test set accuracy: {:.2f}".format(acc))
```
> output:    Test set accuracy: 0.89

*Not bad! Using only two features, your tree was able to achieve an accuracy of 89%!*

### Logistic regression vs classification tree
A classification tree divides the feature space into rectangular regions. In contrast, a linear model such as logistic regression produces only a single linear decision boundary dividing the feature space into two decision regions.

We have written a custom function called plot_labeled_decision_regions() that you can use to plot the decision regions of a list containing two trained classifiers. You can type help(plot_labeled_decision_regions) in the shell to learn more about this function.

X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test, the model dt that you've trained in an earlier exercise, as well as the function plot_labeled_decision_regions() are available in your workspace.
* Import LogisticRegression from sklearn.linear_model.
* Instantiate a LogisticRegression model and assign it to logreg.
* Fit logreg to the training set.
* Review the plot generated by plot_labeled_decision_regions().
```python
# Import LogisticRegression from sklearn.linear_model
from sklearn.linear_model import  LogisticRegression

# Instatiate logreg
logreg = LogisticRegression(random_state=1)

# Fit logreg to the training set
logreg.fit(X_train, y_train)

# Define a list called clfs containing the two classifiers logreg and dt
clfs = [logreg, dt]

# Review the decision regions of the two classifiers
plot_labeled_decision_regions(X_test, y_test, clfs)
```
*Great work! Notice how the decision boundary produced by logistic regression is linear while the boundaries produced by the classification tree divide the feature space into rectangular regions.*

### Growing a classification tree
In the video, you saw that the growth of an unconstrained classification tree followed a few simple rules. Which of the following is not one of these rules?
- The existence of a node depends on the state of its predecessors.
- The impurity of a node can be determined using different criteria such as entropy and the gini-index.
- When the information gain resulting from splitting a node is null, the node is declared as a leaf.
- ×　When an internal node is split, the split is performed in such a way so that information gain is minimized.
  
*Absolutely so! It's quite the contrary! Actually, splitting an internal node always involves maximizing information gain!*

### Using entropy as a criterion
In this exercise, you'll train a classification tree on the Wisconsin Breast Cancer dataset using entropy as an information criterion. You'll do so using all the 30 features in the dataset, which is split into 80% train and 20% test.

X_train as well as the array of labels y_train are available in your workspace.
* Import DecisionTreeClassifier from sklearn.tree.
* Instantiate a DecisionTreeClassifier dt_entropy with a maximum depth of 8.
* Set the information criterion to 'entropy'.
* Fit dt_entropy on the training set.
```python
# Import DecisionTreeClassifier from sklearn.tree
from sklearn.tree import DecisionTreeClassifier

# Instantiate dt_entropy, set 'entropy' as the information criterion
dt_entropy = DecisionTreeClassifier(max_depth=8,criterion='entropy', random_state=1)

# Fit dt_entropy to the training set
dt_entropy.fit(X_train, y_train)
```
*Wonderful! In the next exercise, you'll compare the accuracy of dt_entropy to the accuracy of a another tree trained using the gini-index as the information criterion.*

### Entropy vs Gini index
In this exercise you'll compare the test set accuracy of dt_entropy to the accuracy of another tree named dt_gini. The tree dt_gini was trained on the same dataset using the same parameters except for the information criterion which was set to the gini index using the keyword 'gini'.

X_test, y_test, dt_entropy, as well as accuracy_gini which corresponds to the test set accuracy achieved by dt_gini are available in your workspace.
* Import accuracy_score from sklearn.metrics.
* Predict the test set labels of dt_entropy and assign the result to y_pred.
* Evaluate the test set accuracy of dt_entropy and assign the result to accuracy_entropy.
* Review accuracy_entropy and accuracy_gini.
```python
# Import accuracy_score from sklearn.metrics
from sklearn.metrics import accuracy_score

# Use dt_entropy to predict test set labels
y_pred = dt_entropy.predict(X_test)

# Evaluate accuracy_entropy
accuracy_entropy = accuracy_score(y_test, y_pred)

# Print accuracy_entropy
print(f'Accuracy achieved by using entropy: {accuracy_entropy:.3f}')

# Print accuracy_gini
print(f'Accuracy achieved by using the gini index: {accuracy_gini:.3f}')
```
> output:    
>    Accuracy achieved by using entropy: 0.991   
>    Accuracy achieved by using the gini index: 1.000

*Nice work! Notice how the two models achieve almost the same accuracy. Most of the time, the gini index and entropy lead to the same results. The gini index is slightly faster to compute and is the default criterion used in the DecisionTreeClassifier model of scikit-learn.*

### Decision tree for regression
### Train your first regression tree
In this exercise, you'll train a regression tree to predict the mpg (miles per gallon) consumption of cars in the auto-mpg dataset (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/uciml/autompg-dataset) using all the six available features.

The dataset is processed for you and is split to 80% train and 20% test. The features matrix X_train and the array y_train are available in your workspace.
* Import DecisionTreeRegressor from sklearn.tree.
* Instantiate a DecisionTreeRegressor dt with maximum depth 8 and min_samples_leaf set to 0.13.
* Fit dt to the training set.
```python
# Import DecisionTreeRegressor from sklearn.tree
from sklearn.tree import DecisionTreeRegressor

# Instantiate dt
dt = DecisionTreeRegressor(max_depth=8,
            min_samples_leaf=0.13,
            random_state=3)

# Fit dt to the training set
dt.fit(X_train, y_train)
```
